[ADD] Helpdesk: Stages (#11565)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/overview/stages.rst

=======================

.. important::
   :ref:`Developer mode <developer-mode>` **must** be activated to access the stages menu. To
   activate developer mode, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> General Settings --> Developer
   Tools`, and click :guilabel:`Activate the developer mode`.

To view or modify **Helpdesk** stages, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration -->
Stages`.

The default list view on the :guilabel:`Stages` page displays the stages currently available in the
**Helpdesk** app. They are listed in the order they appear in the pipeline.

To change the order of the stages, click the :icon:`oi-draggable` :guilabel:`(draggable)` icon, to
the left of the stage name, and drag it to the desired place on the list.

.. image:: stages/stages-list-buttons.png
   :alt: View of the stage list page emphasizing the buttons used to change the order the stages
         appear in the list.

.. tip::
   Change the stage order on the Kanban view of a **Helpdesk** team's pipeline by dragging and
   dropping individual columns.

To create a new stage, click the :guilabel:`New` button at the top-left of the stage list. Doing so
reveals a blank stage form.

> Choose a :guilabel:`Name` for the new stage..

Reviewer: Remove extra .
```suggestion
Choose a :guilabel:`Name` for the new stage.
```

======
Stages
======

*Stages* are used to organize the *Helpdesk* pipeline and track the progress of tickets. Stages are
customizable, and can be renamed to fit the needs of each team.

Create or modify stages
=======================

.. important::
   :ref:`Developer mode <developer-mode>` **must** be activated to access the stages menu. To
   activate developer mode, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> General Settings --> Developer

>    Tools`, and click :guilabel:`Activate the developer mode`.

Author: already there (on line 12) :)

To view or modify *Helpdesk* stages, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration -->
Stages`.

The default list view on the :guilabel:`Stages` page displays the stages currently available in

> *Helpdesk*. They are listed in the order they appear in the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the *Helpdesk* app. They are listed in the order they appear in the pipeline.
```

To change the order of the stages, click the :icon:`oi-draggable` :guilabel:`(draggable)` icon, to
the left of the stage name, and drag it to the desired place on the list.

.. image:: stages/stages-list-buttons.png
   :alt: View of the stage list page emphasizing the buttons used to change the order the stages
         appear in the list.

.. tip::

>    Change the stage order on the Kanban view of a *Helpdesk* team's pipeline by dragging and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Change the stage order on the Kanban view of a **Helpdesk** team's pipeline by dragging and
```

   dropping individual columns.

To create a new stage, click the :guilabel:`New` button at the top-left of the stage list. Doing so
reveals a blank stage form.

> Choose a :guilabel:`Name` for the new stage, and add a description, if desired.

Reviewer 3: There are more fields on the Stage form, and I'm not seeing any 'Description'

Can you double-check to ensure the accuracy of this statement during your revisions? Thanks!

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8eaf139-a09e-48b9-9c2e-4ba36376e78f)

.. image:: stages/new-stage-details.png
   :alt: View of a stage's settings page in Odoo Helpdesk.

Add email and SMS templates to stages
=====================================

> When an :guilabel:`Email Template` is added to a stage, an email is automatically sent to the
> customer when a ticket reaches that specific stage in the pipeline. Likewise, adding an
> :guilabel:`SMS Template` triggers an SMS text message to send to the customer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When an :guilabel:`Email Template` is added to a stage, a pre-configured email is automatically sent to the
customer when a ticket reaches that specific stage in the pipeline. Likewise, adding an
:guilabel:`SMS Template` triggers a pre-configured SMS text message to send to the customer.
```

.. important::

>    SMS Text Messaging is an :doc:`In-App Purchase (IAP) </applications/essentials/in_app_purchase/>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   SMS text messaging is an :doc:`In-App Purchase (IAP) </applications/essentials/in_app_purchase/>`
```

   service that requires prepaid credits to work. Refer to `SMS Pricing FAQ
   <https://iap-services.odoo.com/iap/sms/pricing>`_ for additional information.

> To select an existing email template, select it from the :guilabel:`Email Template` field. Click on
> the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`(right arrow)` icon to the right of the field to edit the
> chosen template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To select an existing email template, select it from the :guilabel:`Email Template` field. After
choosing a template, click on the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`(right arrow)` icon to the right
of the field to edit the chosen template.
```

> To create a new template, click the field, and enter a title for the new template. Then, select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create a new template from this form, click the field, and enter a title for the new template. Then, select
```

:guilabel:`Create and edit` from the drop-down menu that appears, and complete the form details.

Follow the same steps to select, edit, or create an :guilabel:`SMS Template`.

.. image:: stages/sms-template.png
   :alt: View of an SMS template setup page in Odoo Helpdesk.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/general/companies/email_template`

Assign stages to a team

> =======================

Reviewer 3: Before you get to this, do you want to mention the 'Sequence' field and what it represents

Author: As a rule I usually leave out the "sequence" field when it is mentioned because it is a technical field, and in general people shouldn't need to edit it.

Make a selection in the :guilabel:`Helpdesk Teams` field on the :guilabel:`Stages` form. More than
one team may be selected, since the same stage can be assigned to multiple teams.

Fold a stage

> ============

Reviewer 3: may want to consider placing this above the 'Assign stages to a team' section, as that's how it appears on the form

By default, stages are unfolded in the Kanban view of either tickets dashboard: :guilabel:`My
Tickets` (:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Tickets --> My Tickets`) or :guilabel:`All Tickets`
(:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Tickets --> All Tickets`).

Tickets in an unfolded stage are visible in the pipeline under the stage name, and are considered
*open*.

> Stages can be configured to be folded in the Kanban view of a tickets page (:guilabel:`My Tickets`
> or :guilabel:`All Tickets`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Stages can be configured to be folded in the Kanban view of a tickets page.
```

> The name of the folded stages are still visible, though the tickets in the stage are hidden from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The name of the folded stages are still visible, but the tickets in the stage are hidden from
```

> The name of the folded stages are still visible, though the tickets in the stage are no longer
> immediately visible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The name of the folded stages are still visible, though the tickets in the stage are hidden from view.
```

> To fold a stage, check the :guilabel:`Folded in Kanban` box on the :guilabel:`Stages` form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To fold a stage, tick the :guilabel:`Folded in Kanban` checkbox on the :guilabel:`Stages` form.
```

.. warning::
   Tickets that reach a *folded* stage are considered *closed*. Closing a ticket before the work is
   completed can result in reporting and communication issues. This setting should **only** be
   enabled for stages that are considered *closing* stages.

Temporarily fold a stage
------------------------

Stages can be temporarily folded in the Kanban view of the tickets pipeline, as well.

View a specific team's pipeline by navigating to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app`, and clicking the
team's Kanban card.

> Select a stage to fold temporarily, then click the :icon:`fa-gear` :guilabel:`(gear)` icon, and
> select :guilabel:`Fold` from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hover the cursor at the top of the desired stage to fold temporarily, then click the :icon:`fa-gear`
:guilabel:`(gear)` icon that appears, and select :guilabel:`Fold` from the drop-down menu.
```

> Select a stage to fold temporarily, then click the :icon:`fa-gear` :guilabel:`(gear)` icon, and
> select :guilabel:`Fold` from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select a stage to fold temporarily, then click the :icon:`fa-gear` :guilabel:`(Actions)` icon, and
select :guilabel:`Fold` from the drop-down menu.
```

Sam just edited this for me in a doc, and we are using this from now on for the gear icon.

Author: This is actually referring to two different things. The "Actions" icon is only referring to the Actions menu. In this case, the gear icon is used on the stage in the Kanban view to open the Settings menu. So I do not think it makes sense to call it the Actions icon.

Reviewer: @jero-odoo and @larm-odoo, thanks for discussing this distinction. I agree with Jess, that the gear icon should only be labeled as the "Actions" icon if it is referring to the Actions menu.
